README.md, before:

# Hacking CA8271x XGS-PON Stick

Some information has been created with the help of `@stich86_0046`. Thanks!

- Rewrite S/N, Loid, PLOAM, etc… for your ISP FTTx
- Switch between 10GEPON and XGSPON.

# XGS-PON ONT

| 10GE/XGS-PON ONT | Form | PON | SoC | OEM | Mgmt IP | Mgmt |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| [CIG XG-99S](https://www.cigtech.com/product_portfolio/xg-99x-3/) | SFP+ | XGS | CA8271S | -   | 192.168.100.1 | UART/Telnet |
| [CIG XE-99S](https://item.taobao.com/item.htm?id=695062358407) | SFP+ | 10GE | CA8271S | -   | 192.168.0.1 | UART/Telnet/SSH |
| [ECIN EN-XGSFPP-OMAC](https://ecin.ca/xgs-pon-sfp-stick-module-xgspon-ont-w-t-mac-function-mounted-on-sfp-package/)<br>***End of Sales*** | SFP+ | XGS | CA8271S | CIG XG-99S (old model) | 192.168.100.1 | UART/Telnet |
| [ECIN EN-XGSFPP-OMAC-V2](https://ecin.ca/custom-xgs-pon-sfp-stick-module-xgspon-ont-w-t-mac-function-mounted-on-sfp-package/)<br>***Not CA8271x SoC*** | SFP+ | XGS | ***MxL PRX126*** | AZORES WAS-110 | 192.168.11.1 | Telnet/Web |
| [FS XGS-ONU-25-20NI](https://www.fs.com/jp/products/185594.html) | SFP+ | XGS | CA8271S | CIG XG-99S | 192.168.100.1 | UART/Telnet |
| [Hisense LTF-726x-BH+](https://www.taobao.com/list/item/658650417501.htm) | SFP+ | 10GE/XGS? | CA8271S | -   | 192.168.0.1 | UART/SSH/Web |
| [CIG XG-99M](https://www.cigtech.com/product_portfolio/xg-99m/) | ONT | XGS | CA8271A | -   | 192.168.0.1 | UART/Telnet |
| Frontier FOX222 | ONT | XGS | CA8271A | CIG XG-99M | 192.168.188.1 | UART |
| NTT 10G-EPON &lt;O&gt;C ONU &lt;4&gt; | ONT | 10GE | NLD0605APB<br>(CA8271 OEM) | - | 192.168.1.1 | UART |
| NTT 10G-EPON &lt;M&gt;C ONU &lt;4&gt; | ONT | 10GE | NLD0605APB<br>(CA8271 OEM) | - | 192.168.1.1 | UART |

The CIG XE-99S and CIG XG-99S (and OEM’s) have the same hardware and can be switched by replacing the firmware.

# Quick Start
## XGS-PON
For the quick start of XGS-PON, we are porting it to **[Hack-GPON.org](https://hack-gpon.org/xgs/ont-fs-XGS-ONU-25-20NI/)** !<br>
This github deals with more advanced information about EPON and Stick.

# Menu

- [UART pin](/doc/UART.md)
- [ONT Login Password](/doc/Password.md)
    - [emulate CIG ONT in QEMU](/emulate_CIG)
- [How to get root CLI & root Shell](/doc/rootShell.md)
- [ONT scfg.txt files (CORTINA SoC Configuration file)](/doc/scfg_files.md)
    - [default scfg.txt dump](/default_scfg)
- [ONT Configuration](/doc/Configuration.md)
    - [XG-99x Config Command](/doc/XG-99x_Config.md)
    - LTF-726x-BH+ Config
- [NAND dump](/NAND_dump)
    - [mtd dump & Bricked Stick Repair](/mtd)

# Picture

### FS XGS-ONU-25-20NI

![XGS-ONU-25-20NI Stick](/Picture/FSCOM_XGS-ONU-25-20NI/Stick.jpg)

### CIG XE-99S

![XE-99S Stick](/Picture/XE-99S/Stick.jpg)

### ECIN EN-XGSFPP-OMAC

![ECIN EN-XGSFPP-OMAC Stick](/Picture/ECIN_EN-XGSFPP-OMAC/Stick.jpg)

### Hisense LTF-726x-BH+

![LTF-726x-BH+ Stick](/Picture/LTF726x/Stick.jpg)

### NTT 10G-EPON &lt;O&gt;C ONU &lt;4&gt; (OKI)

![NTT 10G-EPON OKI](/Picture/NTT/Stick.jpg)

### NTT 10G-EPON &lt;M&gt;C ONU &lt;4&gt; (MITSUBISHI)

![NTT 10G-EPON MITSUBISHI](/Picture/MI_NTT/Stick.JPG)

* * *

# This document is a work in progress. More updates will follow.

Commit message:

add XG-99S/XE-99S Switch and "switches dependent"

README.md, after:

# Hacking CA8271x XGS-PON Stick

Some information has been created with the help of `@stich86_0046`. Thanks!

- Rewrite S/N, Loid, PLOAM, etc… for your ISP FTTx
- Switch between 10GEPON and XGSPON.

This content is maintained by reverse engineering by enthusiasts. Use of this content is at your own risk!

# XGS-PON ONT

| 10GE/XGS-PON ONT | Form | PON | SoC | OEM | Mgmt IP | Mgmt |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| [CIG XG-99S](https://www.cigtech.com/product_portfolio/xg-99x-3/) | SFP+ | XGS | CA8271S | -   | 192.168.100.1 | UART/Telnet |
| [CIG XE-99S](https://item.taobao.com/item.htm?id=695062358407) | SFP+ | 10GE | CA8271S | -   | 192.168.0.1 | UART/Telnet/SSH |
| [ECIN EN-XGSFPP-OMAC](https://ecin.ca/xgs-pon-sfp-stick-module-xgspon-ont-w-t-mac-function-mounted-on-sfp-package/)<br>***End of Sales*** | SFP+ | XGS | CA8271S | CIG XG-99S (old model) | 192.168.100.1 | UART/Telnet |
| [ECIN EN-XGSFPP-OMAC-V2](https://ecin.ca/custom-xgs-pon-sfp-stick-module-xgspon-ont-w-t-mac-function-mounted-on-sfp-package/)<br>***Not CA8271x SoC*** | SFP+ | XGS | ***MxL PRX126*** | AZORES WAS-110 | 192.168.11.1 | Telnet/Web |
| [FS XGS-ONU-25-20NI](https://www.fs.com/jp/products/185594.html) | SFP+ | XGS | CA8271S | CIG XG-99S | 192.168.100.1 | UART/Telnet |
| [Hisense LTF-726x-BH+](https://www.taobao.com/list/item/658650417501.htm) | SFP+ | 10GE/XGS? | CA8271S | -   | 192.168.0.1 | UART/SSH/Web |
| [CIG XG-99M](https://www.cigtech.com/product_portfolio/xg-99m/) | ONT | XGS | CA8271A | -   | 192.168.0.1 | UART/Telnet |
| Frontier FOX222 | ONT | XGS | CA8271A | CIG XG-99M | 192.168.188.1 | UART |
| NTT 10G-EPON &lt;O&gt;C ONU &lt;4&gt; | ONT | 10GE | NLD0605APB<br>(CA8271 OEM) | - | 192.168.1.1 | UART |
| NTT 10G-EPON &lt;M&gt;C ONU &lt;4&gt; | ONT | 10GE | NLD0605APB<br>(CA8271 OEM) | - | 192.168.1.1 | UART |

The CIG XE-99S and CIG XG-99S (and OEM’s) have the same hardware and can be switched by replacing the firmware.

# Quick Start
## XGS-PON
For the quick start of XGS-PON, we are porting it to **[Hack-GPON.org](https://hack-gpon.org/xgs/ont-fs-XGS-ONU-25-20NI/)** !<br>
This github deals with more advanced information about EPON and Stick.

# Menu

- [UART pin](/doc/UART.md)
- [ONT Login Password](/doc/Password.md)
    - [emulate CIG ONT in QEMU](/emulate_CIG)
- [How to get root CLI & root Shell](/doc/rootShell.md)
- [ONT scfg.txt files (CORTINA SoC Configuration file)](/doc/scfg_files.md)
    - [default scfg.txt dump](/default_scfg)
- [ONT Configuration](/doc/Configuration.md)
    - [XG-99x Config Command](/doc/XG-99x_Config.md)
    - LTF-726x-BH+ Config
- [NAND dump](/NAND_dump)
    - [Switch between XGS and 10GE](/XG-XE_Switch)
    - [mtd dump & Bricked Stick Repair](/mtd)

# switches dependent

- This Stick is reported to the SFP as an "unknown module". For this reason, some switches such as Alaxala will not link up. (i2c-0xA0 0x03 : 0x00)
- This Stick has its own vendor name registered in the vendor information, so it will not link up on switches with vendor lock enabled.
- Some switches may refuse to link up if the SFP LOS pin is High. In this case, fiber must be connected to the Stick.

# Picture

### FS XGS-ONU-25-20NI

![XGS-ONU-25-20NI Stick](/Picture/FSCOM_XGS-ONU-25-20NI/Stick.jpg)

### CIG XE-99S

![XE-99S Stick](/Picture/XE-99S/Stick.jpg)

### ECIN EN-XGSFPP-OMAC

![ECIN EN-XGSFPP-OMAC Stick](/Picture/ECIN_EN-XGSFPP-OMAC/Stick.jpg)

### Hisense LTF-726x-BH+

![LTF-726x-BH+ Stick](/Picture/LTF726x/Stick.jpg)

### NTT 10G-EPON &lt;O&gt;C ONU &lt;4&gt; (OKI)

![NTT 10G-EPON OKI](/Picture/NTT/Stick.jpg)

### NTT 10G-EPON &lt;M&gt;C ONU &lt;4&gt; (MITSUBISHI)

![NTT 10G-EPON MITSUBISHI](/Picture/MI_NTT/Stick.JPG)

* * *

# This document is a work in progress. More updates will follow.
