# Login Password

## XG-99S

This stick does not have a web console.<br>
To configure it, you must log in via `UART` or `Telnet`.<br>

- UART Baud Rate : `115200 bps`
- Telnet IP : `192.168.100.1:23`

| User | Password |
| --- | --- |
| `PON S/N` | `8digit HMAC-MD5 (PON S/N uppercase)` |

Password is generated by `/usr/bin/GponCLI` or  `/usr/bin/CigLogin` and `get_pass_by_sn` in `/usr/lib/libvos.so`.<br>

To generate a password, emulate CIG ONT in Linux QEMU and run GponCLI and execute the following command.<br>
(or execute the following command from the UART of the appropriate CIG ONT. ONT is GPON also fine)<br>

GponCLI download and Instructions on how to run on QEMU can be found here.<br>
- [emulate CIG ONT in QEMU](/emulate_CIG)


```
ONT> enable
#ONT> system/debug/md5 "your PON-S/N uppercase" 8
```

For example, if the SN is `ECIG21100005`, the user name and password would be

```
#ONT> system/debug/md5 ECIG21100005 8
MD5 Value: eWsEuWgG
```

- User : `ECIG21100005`
- Password : `eWsEuWgG`

UART does not ask for a login, it is possible to get a root shell without know the password.<br>

### ATTENTION - 1

fscom Stick (`XGS-ONU-25-20NI`) does not have `PON S/N` on the label.<br>
(The S/N field stamped on the label is `fscom internal S/N`. **it is not** `PON S/N`)<br>
The only way to get the `PON S/N` on fscom Stick is to check the boot Log from the `UART` !<br>

### ATTENTION - 2

[fscom ConfigurationGuide](https://resource.fs.com/mall/doc/20230526164531wpoac7.pdf) mentions password generation by a password generation tool (Telnet tool),<br>
but when we contacted Technical support, **they replied that fscom has no plans to provide this tool.**<br>
>***Q.<br>***
> *how do I generate password it from the product I received? <br>
> If need a dedicated password generation tool, can you provide one?*<br>
> ***A.<br>***
> ***The username and login password we provided is generated from the serial number of the product you purchased. It is not a common username and login password.<br>
> Unfortunately, it is not possible to generate a password from a purchased product. Nor can we provide a password generation tool.<br>***

**2023/07/07:  fscom has revised the configration guide.**<br>

## LTF-726x-BH+

This stick have SSH and web console.<br>
but, most settings are not available on the web, plus there is a bug in the PLOAM settings.<br>
To configure it, you must log in via `UART` or `SSH`.<br>

- UART Baud Rate : `115200 bps`
- SSH IP : `192.168.0.1:22`

| User | Password |
| --- | --- |
| `root` | `hbmtsfp` |

## NATYWISH LTF-7267-BH+

This stick have Telnet and web console. but, the login password to the web console is not known.<br>
To configure it, you must log in via `UART` or `Telnet`.

- UART Baud Rate : `115200 bps`
- Telnet IP : `192.168.1.1:23`

| Console | User | Password |
| --- | --- | --- |
| UART | `admin` | `hbmt521@` |
| Telnet | `hbmt` | `hbmt521@` |
| Web | ? | ? |

## XG-99M

This ONT does not have a web console.<br>
and, telnet is also not started by default, so you need to start telnetd from UART<br>
To configure it, you must log in via `UART`.<br>

- UART Baud Rate : `115200 bps`
- Telnet IP : `192.168.188.1:23`

| User | Password |
| --- | --- |
| `unknown` | `8digit HMAC-MD5 (PON SN uppercase)` |

Password is generated by `/usr/bin/CigLogin` and `get_pass_by_sn` in `/usr/lib/libvos.so`.<br>
The easiest way to generate a password is to execute the following command from the UART of the appropriate CIG ONU (GPON is also fine)

```
ONT> enable
#ONT> system/debug/md5 "your PON-S/N uppercase" 8
```

For example, if the SN is `ECIG21100005`, the user name and password would be

```
#ONT> system/debug/md5 ECIG21100005 8
MD5 Value: eWsEuWgG
```

- User : `ECIG21100005`
- Password : `eWsEuWgG`

This ont does not know the username and currently there is no way to login via telnet.<br>
but, UART does not ask for a login, it is possible to get a root shell without know the password.<br>

## XE-99S

This stick does not have a web console.<br>
To configure it, you must log in via `UART` or `Telnet` or `SSH`.<br>

- UART Baud Rate : `115200 bps`
- Telnet IP : `192.168.0.1:23`

| User | Password |
| --- | --- |
| `root` | none or `admin` |
